---
title: 'A Gipsy Moon show is a good time'
date: 20178-07-02T15:13:10.000Z
description: It doesn't necessarily have to be in the vicinity of Nederland for the good times to happen. 
---
A Gipsy Moon show is a good time.

It doesn't necessarily have to be in the vicinity of Nederland for the good times to happen. Last June Gipsy Moon
 played in Telluride at Fly Me To The Moon Saloon at the start up and then at the end of the Telluride Bluegrass Festival. And they were wonderful evenings with guess appearances by members of Elephant Revival, Fruition, Green Sky, and of course Left Over Salmon, whose Vince Herman is the parent of Gipsy Moon band members Colin Huff and Silas Herman.

And yet, when the band plays in Nederland or its vicinity it's even better, for the region takes an understandable pride in it's homegrown musicians, its homegrown music and its homegrown.

Gipsy Moon shines in their first album 'Eventide'.

This confederation of very individual song writers have fused and evolved a distinct style. It may start at a Gipsy/ Eastern European kind of place. And yet there's no telling where its going to go.

The band has mostly traditional folk/bluegrass instrumentation. Silas Herman is a musical prodigy who is extraordinary on guitar and mandolin. Colin Huff plays an ancient stand-up bass. David Matters plays banjo and guitar. MacKenzie Page plays guitar, washboard, and tenor banjo. Also on the album are Sally Van Meter playing slide guitar and Enion Pelta-Tiller on fiddle. 

But then Andrew Bain Conley plays cello. And he plays it in a Gipsy/Eastern European kind of way. And he plays it in a classically trained kind of way.  And he plays it in a kind of way where it can go most anywhere. 

Conley's cello is often the beginning of the band's groove. But then Conley and Herman together are the fullness the total completeness of the groove. Together they provide a place where all the other instruments can pile on, and make the solid foundation, the solid baseline that everyone else can freely elaborate and embellish on. Conley in conjunction with Herman provides an unbelievably strong instrumentation that frees everybody else, allowing all to do their own musical flying and soaring. Conley and Herman are a testimony to The Academy at the Rocky Grass Bluegrass Festival where they met and developed many of their rich, musical chops.

And in the end Herman holds the power of the groove with beautiful solos on the mandolin and a guitar solo on the song 'Underwater Breathing' that leaves the listener breathless.

And yet Page, Matters and Huff are the ones that do the song-writing heavy-lifting.

The album starts with Page's 'Seven Seas' which is a great beginning to the musical voyage, featuring her lyrical music writing powers and her singing.

Page is a petite woman with a large voice. 

In 'Hunger' Matters gives a dark vision of America with lyrics, such as "you never have enough, you always want the rest, unto this hunger you are a slave"... "hunger flows like blood, children cannot sleep, weary mothers sell their flesh." 

In  'These Mountains' Huff goes into a protest song/anthem for his birthplace singing about how "living here will keep me free". And yet this freedom is embattled by those trying to "sell the soul of these mountains, oh for dollar bills, oh for dollar bills... No they can't buy the soul of these mountains but they sure as hell are going to try."

This album sounds beautiful. The sound quality is uniformly lush and crisp, especially the vocals, especially the harmonies.

The album was produced by Daniel Rodriguez of Elephant Revival who demonstrates his powers as a music producer. 

"There's a secret jam song after the last listed track," notes Rodriguez.  "I turned on the mics, told em to pick a key, and see what happens." 

"There is some great material on this album, and they really stepped it up to serve the songs," he said.
The Boener Zombie Douche-Bagger Apocalypse
The Boener Zombie Douche-Bagger Apocalypse

There is an eternal, cosmic struggle between the forces that want to
make the world suck and the forces that, at the very least, don't want
to make the world suck - maybe even make the world suck less.

And in the Boener Government Shutdown going into the Boener Government
Default, going into the Boener Zombie, Douche-Bagger Apocalypse - all
is revealed.

I'd be the last to deny that there are many aspects of The Affordable
Health Care Act that do, indeed, suck. This law, this policy, remains
essentially RomneyCare. It remains what Romney enacted when he was
Governor of Massachusetts. It is the most Republican approach to
health care which guarantees the obscene profits of the health care
industry.

And yet, in there is an attempt, at the very least, to not make the
world suck more - maybe even make the world suck a little less.

In its denial of evolution, human induced climate change, gravity and
history the Tea Baggers/Douche Baggers have made the Republicans the
party of stupid. And now they have made the Republicans the party of
dementia-like, bat-shit, fucking crazy, for the intentional rattling
of national, and international confidence in the United States dollar
is no less than that.

And this dementia-like, bat-shit, fucking crazy is contagious, going
viral, already spreading through the District of Columbia, spreading
through the United States of America, spreading through the world.

At this moment people are worrying about the safety of their savings,
about whether a day will soon come when the ATM's don't work. And this
is having the effect on international money markets that you would
expect.

The seeds of panic are sown.

A week before the Boener Government Shutdown a former navy technician
become navy civilian subcontractor massacres a dozen people at The
Navy Yard a couple of miles from Capitol Hill. On the first day of
the Boener Government Shutdown going into the Boener Government
Default going into the Boener Zombie Douche-Bagger Apocalypse a
34-year-old dental hygienist from Stamford, CT with her one-year-old
daughter in the back seat attempts to crash her car through White
House barricades. Then she leads a police chase to Capitol Hill where
she is killed by a volley of police and secret service bullets as
horrified legislators look on. A short distance away a man burns
himself in the middle of the National Mall, bringing the smell of gas
soaked barbecue to these same legislators' noses.

You can't make this stuff up.

This really happened, is happening.

There is no telling where this is going.

Boener sure doesn't have a clue.
Review of Elephant Revival's New CD 'These Changing Skies
This writer goes way back with the musician/songwriters of Elephant Revival.

Long before the band was even a concept - I was there.

Even though we are not the same age, in our origins in Southeastern
New England and in our travels across the country, lead
guitarist/vocalist Daniel Rodriguez and this writer have grown up
together.

And it is with amazement and delight that this writer listens to
Elephant Revival's new album 'These Changing Skies'. There is no
doubt, this album is a huge milestone in the on-going magical-reality
saga, in this great adventure in music, which this band is embarked
upon.

The album, which was released on Tuesday, September 3, is their fourth
full-length album. It was recorded last winter at the musical mecca,
Bear Creek Studio, not far from Seattle, Wash.

And it is a stunningly beautiful masterpiece.

As I non-stop listen to this album, I can't help but to think back to
the humble origins of the band. And I can't help but to note how far
everyone has come as musicians/song writers/Human Beings.

The first song of the 12-song album is Rodriguez's and is entitled
'Birds and Stars' and it is truly wonderful.

The song's lush, beautifully layered harmonies, and brilliant lyrics
is about wonder - going into wonder. And as such it is a great example
of the new genre of music created by the band - Transcendental Folk.

As is his second song on the album 'Spinning' which is one of the most
popular songs in the bands repertoire, as is Rodriguez's third song,
'Grace of A Woman'.

The second song is vocalist, wash-boarder-percussionist and musical
saw-er, Bonnie May Paine's, and is entitled 'Remembering a Beginning'.

This song features Paine's eerily amazing, haunting voice and refers
to "these changing skies". The song speaks of finding the resilience
and fluidity that allows one to find your way in ever-changing
circumstances and understanding the beginnings of ever-changing
circumstances.

Paine's other songs on the album 'Satisfied', 'Willing and Able", and
'Rogue River' all illustrate her genius as a song writer, a
percussionist, and as a very distinctive singer.

'Remembering A Beginning' is followed by vocalist, banjoist Sage
Cook's 'The Obvious' which speaks of witnessing/participating
in/having visions at an Occupy Wall Street demonstration in New York,
two years ago.

Cook's other songs, 'Down to the Sea',  'Over Over And' are
contemplative, and emotionally complex songs that are at the same time
very popular, emotionally engaging songs.

Bridget Law's remarkable musicianship, and arranging is featured in
'The Rakers' a song by David Wesler.

What Law brings to the band is a vital and pure strain of Celtic,
Blood, Music, that brings irrepressible dancing. She channels the soul
of this music.

This has always been a very durable, central strand of the band's
music. 'The Rakers' clearly demonstrates this.

And then there's Dango Rose's instrumental 'The Pasture'.

What this writer hears in this song is an amazingly gifted songwriter
just coming into his greater and further powers. Rose is writing the
popular orchestra pieces of this time.

The music speaks of the complex web of nature contained and yet
transcending the pasture.

What I particularly hear in Rose's song is someone fulfilling the
intent with which they started a long, musical journey. He has reached
the place where he has acquired the powers to compose and perform the
music he has always wanted to compose and perform. And this is what
he's doing.

And this is true of all the other musician/songwriters of Elephant Revival.
